---
layout: post
title:  "Understanding Establishment-Level ICE Audits"
date:   2018-10-12 22:11:18 -0800
#categories: jekyll update
---
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has two primary methods by which to locate and deport undocumented individuals living within the United States: establishment audits and jail audits. Information on ICE's establishment-level audits have, until now, been only available sporadically and in aggregate form. This makes it difficult to assess what instigates them and their importance in ICE's overall domestic operations as well as what impact they may have on key economic drivers. I use new data on ICE's work-site audits to evaluate the extent to which Secure Communities, which facilitate jail audits, and local law enforcement impacted the frequency and effectiveness of ICE audits. I then explore how the number of and productivity of establishment audits affects crime and employment. Evidence suggests that Secure Community roll-out reduces the number of establishment ICE audits in a given county by seven percent, indicating that ICE is allocating more of its time and resources on jail audits and less so on establishment audits. Evidence also shows that Secure Community roll-out reduces the number of undocumented individuals found from establishment audits by 11 percent indicating that Secure Communities reduce the efficiency of establishment-level ICE audits. Further, establishment audits are found to result in a small increase in crime. They also reduce employment outcomes for individuals that are Hispanic and Asian, while increasing overall employment. Yet the relationship between establishment audits and Hispanic and Asian employment is imprecise. My findings indicate that while establishment audits make it more costly for ICE to find undocumented individuals, it is possible that this form of immigration enforcement is preferred given the smaller social costs incurred relative to jail audits conducted under Secure Communities.
